launchr(1) -- Start and stop launchd services
=============================================

## SYNOPSIS

`brew` { start | stop | restart } [--user|--boot] service,(s) ...  
`brew launchd` info [ service,(s) ] ...  
`brew launchd` clean  
`brew launchd` default { --user | --boot }  
`brew launchd` { --help | --version }  

-or-

`launchr` { start | stop | restart | info | clean | default | ... } [options] ...  

## SERVICES

  * `formula_name`:
    The brew formula name. This is internally expanded to a list of Launchd plists / job labels.

  * `com.launchd.job.label[.plist]`:
    The name of the Launchd job label. Also the plist filename. Useful when a formula has installed multiple launchd services (sub-services).

## DESCRIPTION

Launchr is an extension to Homebrew to start and stop Launchd services.

The launchd service status of a brew formula is managed by symlinks. When a formula is installed, any launchd plists are linked into _$HOMEBREW_PREFIX/Library/LaunchDaemons_. Later, when a service is started, those symlinks are redirected to the target LaunchDaemons folder (as per --user / --boot flag). Launchctl is then called to bring the service up/down.

If a running service is deleted or uninstalled, it should be stopped first with `brew stop`. Otherwise the launchd database will be left in a state which is inconsistent with the symlinks in _$HOMEBREW_PREFIX/Library/LaunchDaemons_. However Launchr has an auto clean feature to recover from such situations.

`Sudo` is absolutely required to install boot-time services. The corresponding keg will be `chown -R'd` to `root:wheel`. This is a strict requirement of Apple's Launchd. When the service is stopped, the keg is chown'ed back to user ownership of the enclosing folder.

## OPTIONS

  * `start` [--user|--boot] service,(s) ...:
    Start launchd service(s). Equivalent to launchctl load -w files...

  * `stop` [--user|--boot] service,(s) ...:
    Stop launchd service(s). Equivalent to launchctl unload -w files...

  * `restart` [--user|--boot] service,(s) ...:
    Restart launchd service(s).

  * `--user`:
    Start at user login. Otherwise, the default setting will be used.

  * `--boot`:
    Start at boot time. Requires sudo / root privelidges. Otherwise, the default setting will be used.

  * `info` [ service,(s) ] ...:
    Info for launchd service(s). With no arguments, print info for all installed services.

  * `clean`:
    Clean missing/broken launchd services.

  * `default` { --user | --boot }:
    Set the default target for launchd services. Defaults to --user, which will start daemons at user login (ie via Loginwindow, not ssh). Whearas --boot will ensure all services are set to start at boot time. This option can be overriden on a case-by-case basis.

  * `--help`:
    Show help summary

  * `--version`:
    Print version information

## BUGS
  The upstreams BTS can be found at <http://github.com/dreamcat4/launchr/issues>.

## SEE ALSO
 brew(1), brew-launchd(1), launchctl(1), launchd(8), launchd.plist(5)

## Author

 Copyright (C) 2010 Dreamcat4. See LICENSE for details.

